# False Positive Rules

False Positive Rules filter out detections generated by the `report` action of Detection & Response rules. These rules apply globally across all rule namespaces and targets.

## Use Cases

The typical use case for FP rules is to add exceptions from some detections that are cross-cutting (for example ignore all detections from a specific host), organization-specific exceptions (like ignoring alerts relating to a custom piece of software used in an organization), or suppressing errors from managed D&R rules you don't have direct access to.

## Structure

False positive rules are structured roughly the same as the Detection part of a D&R rule. The main difference is that instead of a direct event, the rule applies to the content of a detection, as can be seen in the Detections section of the web app. 

The originating event for the detection can still be accessed at the `detect` path. This means that if ignoring something based on the event content, we only need to add `detect/` to the front of the `path` (see [example](#ignore-detections-for-specific-file-name)).

## Examples

### Suppress a Specific Detection

Prevent a specific detection:

```yaml
op: is
path: cat
value: my-detect-name
```

### Ignore Detections for Specific File Name

Ignore any detection that relates to a file name in any path.

```yaml
op: ends with
path: detect/event/FILE_PATH
value: this_is_fine.exe
```

### Ignore Detections on a Specific Host

Any detection originating from a specific host will be ignored.

```yaml
op: is
path: routing/hostname
value: web-server-2
```