# Storage

LimaCharlie stores a full year of searchable endpoint telemetry by default. This can be disabled in an organization by unsubscribing from [`insight`](https://app.limacharlie.io/add-ons/detail/insight).

All files and telemetry ingested are indexed across common indicators of compromise and are accessible  via the web application or REST API.

## Retention Policy
 
[Events](events-overview.md) sent to LimaCharlie from [sensors](sensors.md) and detections generated by the `report` action from [Detection & Response Rules](dr.md) are stored in a one-year rolling buffer. 

[Artifacts](external_logs.md) collected from sensors (or sent via REST API) are stored for the specified number of days.

## Configuring Collection

### Sensor Events

It's possible to change the default set of event types sent from sensors by using the `Exfil Control` view in the web application, enabled by the [`exfil`](exfil.md) add-on. Some events (and some sensors) are noisier than others, so there are controls for dialing in a balance of granularity and performance.

Read about how to manage event collection rules via the `exfil` service [here](exfil.md).

### Artifacts

No artifacts are collected by default. To configure collection paths, use the `Artifact Collection` view in the web application.

Read about how to manage artifact collection rules [here](external_logs.md).

## Accessing Retained Data

For organizations with [`insight`](https://app.limacharlie.io/add-ons/detail/insight) enabled, there are a few options for accessing retained data.

### Via web application

* Timeline: browse and search a sensor's timeline of events and their trees of related events
* Detections: browse the stream of detections across the entire organization
* Artifacts: browse stored artifacts either across the entire organization, or on a particular sensor

### Via REST API

* Check out the [`Retention`](https://doc.limacharlie.io/docs/api/b3A6MTk2NDI4MQ-get-historical-events) section of our [`Swagger Docs`](https://doc.limacharlie.io/docs/api/YXBpOjE5NjQyNDA-lima-charlie-io-rest-api)

> Read the [Events Overview](events-overview.md) to learn more about events and building trees of events.
