# Products 

## EDR/XDR

Endpoint Visibility in the Cloud Era
Pay for security coverage per-endpoint. Why should it be any other way? Skip the headache of managing servers, instances, or dependencies. Interact with agents and rulesets directly in the cloud with a toolset designed to keep you flexible in your security operations.

It All Starts With an Agent That Runs On Everything
Telemetry data is collected from any platform you need to cover: Windows, Mac, Linux (yes, all distros), and even Chrome, thanks to a lightweight (~500KB) agent that unobtrusively observes endpoint activity. You can even run agents in containers - we'll auto-cull them when they're spun down.

Write Your Own Rules or Subscribe to Proven Ones
A simple rules engine puts you in control with 100ms from detection to a response, with over 70 event types supported. We won't lock you in either. Bring Sigma or Yara rulesets, or even subscribe to a managed ruleset from our marketplace.

Telemetry Lives in the Cloud - or Wherever You Like
All data generated by endpoints is stored and searchable for one year as a default for everyone, but your data is yours to do what you wish. All telemetry is portable in JSON to the 3rd party system of your choice.

Take Action From the Cloud Console
LimaCharlie provides a full-featured web application that allows you to run operations via the agent, explore events detected by your rules, or isolate bad hosts from the network.

And It's All Public for Developers to Build On
Everything that can be accomplished through the LimaCharlie web application can be done through our publicly documented API.

## Net

Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) Rolls SD-WAN Into a Cloud Service
LimaCharlie Net changes the way that secure remote access is delivered. It is much more than a virtual private network and can be established with the click of a button. It is a micro-segmentable network that can capture full or partial PCAP files entirely in the cloud. All without impacting users. These captured files can also be analyzed with the Zeek Network Monitoring Tool and have detection rules written against them. 

And this is just the beginning of what is possible. Learn more here.

Topology Doesn't Matter Anymore With LimaCharlie's Software Defined Perimeter
LimaCharlie Net is a Zero Trust solution that can create secure connections to internal resources based on the identity of the device regardless of the client location. Let your team work from anywhere with compromising security.

Securely Connect Any User on Any Device Running Any Application or Service
Simple and powerful policy controls allow you to control where and when users can access given resources or even what they can access online. Provide your sales team access to your on-premises file server when they're on the road without having to poke holes in your firewall or use DNS sink-holing to block access to sites like Facebook during business hours.

## Artifact Ingestion

## Comms

One Console For the Whole Team
Comms is the place to respond to detections as a team. It's built close to the metal to give you full visibility of the actions your team is taking to mitigate any threats.

Handle Detections Tactically
hunters.png
It all starts when a detection happens - a Room is generated for your team to assign ownership, discuss as a team, assess indicators of compromise, and issue commands. It's more than a paper trail - it's a digital war room.

Eliminate Communication Overhead
Don't waste breath or keystrokes trying to tell your team what action you're taking: just do it. Want to isolate a suspicious endpoint? Just do it and your team will see it in real-time. Newer members can learn the ropes in no time when they see what a real-time investigation looks like.

Correlate Threats with Embedded Context
Rich linking of entities allows your team to observe trends across detections: like an endpoint with several detected threats, or a common detection popping up on several boxes. Navigate between them easily or merge rooms together to create a shared context for complex emerging issues.

Leave a Searchable Trail
Whether it be for auditing, shift changeover, or onboarding, a quick search through Comms will get you up to speed. Pick up where the last guys left off no problem.

# Solutions

## Digital Forensics Incident Response (DFIR)

Incident Response with Superpowers
With an endpoint agent that can be deployed on virtually all operating systems (even the really old versions), you can get set up in any environment in minutes.

Transparent pricing and no contracts
We hate those “contact us for pricing” pages too. We charge $2.50 / endpoint / month. With month-to-month pricing, you can scale up / down as needed without needing to carefully plan in advance. There are no minimums nor long-term contracts to sign.

Fast, self-serve onboarding, with support when you need it
When you get the call about an incident you need to act fast.  With LimaCharlie you can get set up yourself in seconds.  Give it a try -- sign up online right now, without having to talk to a sales person.  We even give you two free agents to try out risk-free (no credit card required).

Stop Giving Your Customers Away
That free Incident Response tool everybody is using isn't free. Land and expand with LimaCharlie and turn your Incident Response deployments into long-term Managed Detection & Response customers.

Collaboration Built-In
Respond to detections as a team and have a single place for all incident-related telemetry. You get full visibility into the actions your team takes in mitigating threats.

From a single screen you can:

Assign ownership of an incident to a team member

Discuss indicators of compromise

Issue commands directly to impacted endpoints

With clear communication and operational continuity, it's more than a paper trail - it's a digital war room.

## Container Security

Security Built for Scale
The days of racking and stacking are over. Cloud is the new frontier and it is often left without the protection enjoyed by physical devices. LimaCharlie's mass deployment functionality and automated sensors cull are among many features cooked in for life in the cloud.

Management Tools for Containers
LimaCharlie can now monitor Docker deployments (like Kubernetes) at the host level. This allows you to deploy LimaCharlie as a Docker container and gain visibility on all the containers within a cluster or host. LimaCharlie also supports Linux kernel network namespaces to associate complex network connection topologies to processes running in containers.

Global Infrastructure
LimaCharlie lives in multiple independent data centers around the globe. Choosing a geographical location ensures data will always be processed in this location and never moved outside. Data is secured starting at the endpoint all the way to your infrastructure.

## Internet of Things (IoT)

An Agent That Runs On Everything
The LimaCharlie agent can be deployed across all major operating systems for x86, ARM and MIPS architectures.

Heavyweight Capability in a Lightweight Package

The agent is approximately 500kb in size and consumes less that 1% CPU on average. LimaCharlie is able to pack so much power into such a small program because it treats the agent as an extension of the cloud by utilizing a true real-time persistent TLS connection.

Control the Amount of Data on the Network
Exfil control ensures that you can tailor the amount of telemetry produced and focus on protecting what you care about.

## Continuous Integration 

Save Time With Your Change Control Process
LimaCharlie’s engineering approach to cybersecurity makes automated testing and deployment easy. Put an end to false negatives and gain peace of mind with a reliable test and deploy toolkit. Track changes in your detection methodology over long periods of time and run detections against historical telemetry.

Tools & Support for Developers
LimaCharlie offers easy to read and well-structured documentation. Wether you are looking to dive headfirst into our quick start guide or want to plan a detailed migration we have got you covered.

Save Time With Your Change Control Process
LimaCharlie’s engineering approach to cyber security makes automated testing and deployment easy. Use a Detectors as Code approach to put an end to false negatives and gain peace of mind with a reliable test and deploy toolkit. Track changes in your detection methodology over long periods of time and run detections against historical telemetry. 

Empower every level of your organization to contribute. Introduce a peer review process to your detection methodology that make cross-training a part of regular day-to-day operations.

## Remote Work

Work From Anywhere on Any Device
In a post-covid world organizations are more vulnerable than ever. BYOD and public access points, such as a favorite coffee shop, increase the attack surface exponentially. LimaCharlie has the tools to secure everything everywhere.

Zero Trust Networking at the Click of a Button
LimaCharlie Net changes the way that secure remote access is delivered. It is much more than a virtual private network and can be established with the click of a button. It is a micro-segmentable network that can capture full or partial PCAP files entirely in the cloud. All without impacting users. These captured files can also be analyzed with the Zeek Network Monitoring Tool and have detection rules written against them. 

And this is just the beginning of what is possible. Learn more here.

## Chrome Shops

Capabilities You Won't Find Anywhere Else
Whether native on a Chromebook or as a side-car agent in the browser, the LimaCharlie Chrome sensor gives you visibility and capability you can't find anywhere else.

The Zero Trust Promise
The Google Chromebook holds the promise of a Zero Trust world but Beyond Corp still has one foot in academia. Until we have solved all of the hard problems the watchers need to keep watching.

LimaCharlie Agent for Google Chrome / Chrome OS
Among its many features and capabilities, LimaCharlie offers an Endpoint Detection & Response (EDR) agent for Google Chrome. The agent is loaded as a Chrome Extension and runs on Windows, macOS, Linux, and Chrome OS.

The agent running in Chrome:

Generates telemetry data on DNS and HTTP requests

Provides visibility into extensions present in the browser

Can isolate Chrome from the network, while leaving the LimaCharlie connection intact

The Chrome agent can run independently in the browser or in parallel with an agent on the operating system allowing you to receive more insight and capabilities. The Chrome extension provides insight without the need to perform SSL inspection and its related costs or TLS 1.3 difficulties.

## Managed Security Service Providers

Take a DevOps Approach to Cybersecurity
Empower every level of your organization to contribute. Introduce a peer review process to your detection methodology that make cross-training a part of regular day-to-day operations.

The Security Business Is a Hard Business
We understand that margins are razor thin and that is why we offer the lowest price performance ratio industry wide. With no contracts or obligations you can bid on anything and have confidence that the deployment will fit with the price you quoted.

Land and Expand
That free Incident Response tool everybody is using isn't free. Land and expand with LimaCharlie and turn your Incident Response deployments into long-term Managed Detection & Response customers.

Transparent Pricing and No Contracts
We hate those “contact us for pricing” pages too. We charge $2.50 / endpoint / month. With month-to-month pricing, you can scale up / down as needed without needing to carefully plan in advance. There are no minimums nor long-term contracts to sign.

## For Developers

Built for Building
LimaCharlie was built by developers with developers in mind. Everything is designed API first and we make everything available to you. The LimaCharlie web application is built entirely with the public API. No magic black boxes.

There Are No Limits on Scale
Well thought out tools and infrastructure that scales. LimaCharlie is built on GCP and leverages many of its capabilities to great effect. Kubernetes and a micro-services architecture ensures unlimited horizontal scaling.

Why Reinvent the Wheel?
In an industry that is plagued by locked-down vertical solutions, LimaCharlie is a breathe of fresh air. Built on principles of open access and integrity - you can be sure that we will work to get you the resources that you need.

The Support You Need
LimaCharlie offers in-depth, well-structured documentation, an e-learning platform and a vibrant Slack community.

Your success is our success. Working with the team at LimaCharlie will be like nothing you have encountered. We are responsive to our customers’ needs and are agile in what we can deliver.

Save Time With Your Change Control Process
LimaCharlie’s engineering approach to cyber security makes automated testing and deployment easy. Use a Detectors as Code approach to put an end to false negatives and gain peace of mind with a reliable test and deploy toolkit. Track changes in your detection methodology over long periods of time and run detections against historical telemetry. 

Empower every level of your organization to contribute. Introduce a peer review process to your detection methodology that make cross-training a part of regular day-to-day operations.

Integrates With Everything
LimaCharlie exposes a full-featured and well-documented REST API along with providing a Python CLI.

LimaCharlie enables automation and integration with other systems and feeds like no other tool can. Use the PULL mode data feed - an HTTPS-based data stream - to create real-time integrations.